# Hard_Hat_Object_Detection
<p>The brain is the most essential organ in the human body. Injury sustained to it during accidents can lead to major malfunctions of other parts of the body, disorders, and in worst case scenarios, death. <strong>Hard hats</strong> are safety equipments in the form of helmets that are worn in an industrial environment setup for the shear purpose of protecting the head, that enhouses and protects the brain. These helmets have cushions provided in the space of approximately 30 mm (1.2 inches) between the helmet's shell and the wearer's head, so that if an object strikes the shell, the impact is less likely to be transmitted directly to the skull. The hard hats are very important parts of certain industries such as construction sites, manufacturing, power plants, automobile, factories, etc. as they help in preventing or minimalizing accidents caused by fall of heavy objects, debris, electrical shock, rain, etc. directly to the head. In such cases wearing the hard hat is indispensible to ensure safety for the workers, working daily in these accident prone instances. </p>
<p>However due to carelessness, negligence and the lack of understanding of how important safety is, a lot of times, workers intentionally and/or unintentionally forget to wear their helmets during their working shift, which leads to many accidents and loss of human lives. It becomes an absolute necessity to ensure that every worker in the field wears these helmets, but manual surveillance is not a feasible and reliable option in large-scale industries.</p>
<p>For this purpose <strong>Computer Vision</strong> can play a vital role in automating the surveillance process via real-time feed from cctv cameras that are already installed on various sites of the (accident prone) working area/field. The model works on detecting an object i.e humans presence in the frame and then detects whether the human is wearing the hard hat or not by providing a visual bounding box around the hard hat (or head) is present and giving a probability value between 0 and 1. This can help alert the management beforehand about the lackadaisical and negligence of workers, which can then take necessary and suitable actions and thereby prevent any major accidents.</p>
